"THE BOOK OF PUKEI.—Chap. 1. 1. And it came to pass in the latter days, that wickedness did much abound in the land,and the “Idle and slothful said one to another, let us send for Walters the Magician, who hasstrange books, and deals with familiar spirits; peradventurehe will inform us where the Nephites, hid their treasure, so be it, that we and our vagabond van, do not perish for lack of sustenance. 2. Now Walters, the Magician, was a man unseemly to look upon, and to profound ignorance added the most consummate impudence,—he obeyed the summons of the idle and slothful, and produced an old book in an unknown tongue, (Cicero's Orations in latin,) from whence he read in the presence of the Idle and Slothful strange stories of hidden treasures and of
the spirit who had the custody thereof. 3. And the Idle and Slothful paid tribute unto the Magician, and besought him saying, Oh! thou who art wise above all men, and can interpret the book that no man understandeth, and can discover hidden things by the power of thy enchantments, lead us, we pray thee to the place where the Nephites buried their treasure, and give us power over “the spirit,” and we will be thy servants forever. 4. And the Magician led the rabble into a dark grove, in a place called Manchester, where
after drawing a Magic circle, with a rusty sword, and collecting his motley crew of latterdemallions, within the centre, he sacrificed a Cock (a bird sacred to Minerva) for the purpose of propiciating the prince of spirits. 5. All things being ready, the Idle and Slothful fell to work with a zeal deserving a better cause, and many a live long night was spent in digging for “the root of all evil.” Howbeit, owing to the wickedness and hardness of their hearts, these credulous and ignorant knaves, were always disappointed, till finally, their hopes, although frequently on the eve [36] of consummation–like that of he hypocrite perished, and their hearts became faint within them. 7. And it came to pass, that when the Idle and Slothful became weary of their nightly labors, they said one to another, lo! this imp of the Devil, hath deceived us, let us no more of him, or peradventure, ourselves, our wives, and our little ones, will become chargeable on the town. 8. Now when Walters the Magician heard these things, he was sorely grieved, and said unto himself, lo! mine occupation is gone, even these ignorant vagabonds, the idl eand [idle and] slothful detect mine impostures. I will away and hide myself, lest the strong arm of the law should bring me to justice. 9. And he took his book, and his rusty sword, and his magic stone, and his stuffed Toad, and all his implements of witchcraft and retired to the mountains near Great Sodus Bay, where he holds communion with the Devil, even unto this day. 10. Now the rest of the acts of the magician, how his mantle fell upon the prophet Jo. Smith Jun. and how Jo. made a league with the spirit, who afterwards turned out to be an angel, and how he obtained the “Gold Bible,” Spectacles, and breast plate–will they not be faithfully recorded in the book of Pukei?”"
"An Extract.—MEN OF UNDERSTANDING.—“This title distinguished a denomination which appeared in Flanders and Brussels, in the year 1511. They owed their origin to an illiterate manwhose name was Egidus Cantor, and to William of Henderison, a Carmilite Monk.—They pretended to be honoured with celestial visions; denied that any could arrive at a perfect knowledge of the Holy Scriptures without the extraordinary succours of a divine illumination, and declared the approach of a new revelation from heaven, more perfect than the Gospel of Christ.” How does this tally with the pretensions of Jo Smith Jr. and his followers—ha?"
"BLASPHEMY—“ BOOK OF MORMON,” alias THE GOLDEN BIBLE. The “ Book of Mormon” has been placed in our hands. A viler imposition was never practised. It is an evidence of fraud, blasphemy and credulity, shocking to the Christian and moralist. The “ author and proprietor” is one “ Joseph Smith, jr.”– a fellow who, by some hocus pocus, acquired such an influence over a wealthy farmer of Wayne county, that the latter mortgaged his farm for $ 3000, which he paid for printing and binding 5000 copies of the blasphemous work. The volume consists of about 600 pages, and is divided into the books of Nephi, of Jacob, of Mosiah, of Alma, of Mormon, of Ether, and of Helaman.—“ Copy right secured!” The style of the work may be conjectured from the “ preface” and “ testimonials” which we subjoin. . . ."
"CAUTION AGAINST THE GOLDEN BIBLE. The editor of the Palmyra Freeman declared in his paper of August 11th, as follows:-- “ The Golden Bible is the greatest piece of superstition that has ever come within the sphere of our knowledge.” In the Investigator, No. 12, Dec. 11, I published, by way of caution, a letter of Oliver H. P. Cowdry, in answer to my letter to Joseph Smith, Jun. Martin Harris, and David Whitmore— the believers in said bible of gold plates— which they affirm they have miraculously, or supernaturally beheld. I sought for evidences, and such as could not be disputed, of the existence of this bible of golden plates. But the answer was— the world must take their words for its existence; and that the book would appear this month. The editor of the Palmyra Freeman, their neighbor, adds to the above, that “ in the fall of 1827, Joseph Smith, of Manchester, Ontario county, reported he had been visited in a dream by the spirit of the Almighty, and informed, that in a certain hill, in that town, was deposited this Golden Bible, containing an ancient record of a divine nature and origin. After being thrice visited thus, as he states, he proceeded to the spot, and found the bible, with a huge pair of spectacles. He had been directed, however, not to let any mortal being examine them [ i. e. the plates and the stone- eyed spectacles] under no less penalty than instant death!! It was said that the leaven of the bible were plates of gold, about eight inches long, six inches wide, and one- eighth of an inch thick. [ i. e. 8 plates are one inch thick, 8 long and 6 wide.] On these plates were characters, or hieroglyphics, engraved.” The whole of the plates are said to weigh about thirty pounds; which would be in gold near eight thousand dollars, beside the value of the engraving. One of Joseph Smith’s proselytes, is, continues the Palmyra Freeman, “ Martin Harris, an honest and industrious farmer of Palmyra.” He is said to have shown some of these characters to Professor Samuel L. Mitchell, of this city, who could not translate them. Martin Harris returned, and set Joseph Smith to the business of translating them: who, “ by placing the spectacles in a hat and looking into them, Joseph Smith said he could interpret these characters.” The editor of the Palmyra Freeman describes Joseph Smith as not being very literate: and that his translation is pronounced, “ by his proselytes, to be superior in style, and more advantageous to mankind than our holy bible!” I have this month received sixteen pages of this work, from page 353 to 368 inclusive. I cannot perceive any superiority of style in this specimen; nor any evidence that this bible is not a book of Joseph Smith’s own manufacture. His title page professed that he was the author of it; and this declaration is evidenced by its style. For in these sixteen pages, I noticed ` yea’ was repeated 34 times; and even 21 times in two pages. The words, ` It came to pass,’ is repeated 56 times in 16 pages, and even ten times on one page. ` Now’ and ` behold,’ are reiterated near the commencement of sentences, full thirty times apiece, and more, in these sixteen pages. Consequently these four things are repeated 162 times on the ear- drum, while speaking of the war of the Nephites and Lemanites, in the day of Moroni, and reign of the judges, according to the Book of Alma. Thus, in page 359, it is written—“ Yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, if all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni— yea, the devil would never have no power over the hearts of the children of men: [ never to have no power, is ever to have some power.] Behold, he was a man like unto Ammon, the son of Mosiah; yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah; yea, and also, Alma and his sons.” Whether this style is equal to our scripture style, the reader can judge. Again, in pages 353 & 4, it reads thus: “ And those who died in the faith of Christ are happy in him, as we must needs suppose.” That a weak faith ends this sentence, is manifest. Again, page 353, is written—“ And there was but few which denied the covenant of freedom.” Was should have been were.— Again: “ And there were some who died with fevers, which at some seasons of the year, was [ were] very frequent. Again, in the next page—“ And it came to pass that they would not, or the MORE part, would not obey,” & c. The following is the title page of the Golden Bible, as published in the Palmyra Freeman:-- “ The Book of Mormon, an account, written by the hand of Mormon upon plates, taken from the plates of Nephi:– “ Wherefore it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites, written to the Lamanites, which are a remnant of the house of Israel: and also to Jew and Gentile; written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation; written and sealed and hid up unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed.– to come forth by the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof– sealed up by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile-- the interpretation thereof by the gift of God: an abridgment taken from the book of Ether.“ Also, which is a record of the people of Jared, which were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to Heaven; which is to shew unto the remnant of the house of Israel how great things the Lord hath done for their fathers: and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever: and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations. And now, if there by fault, it be the mistake of men: wherefore condemn not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the judgment seat of Christ.-- By JOSEPH SMITH, Junior, Author and Proprietor.” Thus we are informed that this Book of Mormon was written [ i. e. engraved] by the hand of Mormon, on plates taken from the plates of Nephi;-- wherefore it is [ not a transcript, but what a strange conclusion] an abridgement of the record of Nephi, & c. If so, why is it not called the record of Nephi? But what is also strange, this record is “ written by way of commandment, and also [ and or also is here useless] by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation;” [ what an uncommon record of past and known events to the Nephites!] “ sealed and hid up unto the Lord; sealed up by the hand of Moroni— an abridgement taken from the book of Ether.” [ Instead of being hid up, it was hid down in the earth of a hill, or in a stone reservoir. It was first said to be an abridgement of the record of Nephi, but it is now said to be an abridgement taken from the book of Ether.]“ Also which is a record of the people of Jared, & c. to teach Jew and Gentile, that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God.” But lastly, Joseph Smith, jun. declares he is the author of this book of Mormon, this record of Nephi, this book of Ether, this record of Jared’s people, who were scattered at the building of the tower of Babel; this convincing work, which is to convert Jew and Gentile to believe that Jesus is the eternal God. Surely our missionaries should take notice of this! “ Now if there be fault, it be the mistake of men,” says J. S. This title page is another specimen of superior style, in which one is soon lost— and wonders what J. Smith means; or how can all that is written by the author be true! These facts are given to caution people not to spend their money uselessly for a book, that is more probable a hoax— or a money- making speculation— or an enthusiastic delusion, than a revelation of facts by the Almighty. C. C. BLATCHLY."
"DIABOLICAL. Our readers must be aware of the great difficulty we labor under in translating our foreign correspondence. The inspired man who wrote the “Gold Bible” on “plates of brass,” in the “reformed Egyptian” language, on account of its brevity, as we are informed, through the medium of one of these psuedo prophets, never had half the trouble that we experience in deciphering the unseemly scrolls of this dark representative of old Pluto’s dominions. His letters and communications are all written in heathen Greek, and the characters so fine and imperfect, that notwithstanding the great power of our editorial spectacles, we have in one instance burnt the scrawl in despair! But behold what followed! The room (our bower,) was immediately filled with the fumes of brimstone, and we thought frequently that we could detect something like sulphuric acid, in the composition; and to cap the climax, we hard a crack, like that of a coachman’s whip, which made us conclude that “old sooty” himself, had snapped his tail at us. We shall be more careful in future. One great difficulty in transcribing the manuscript of this imp, who appears to bear the whimsical name of Snuffer, (when “done into English,”) is, his (strange as it may seem) ignorance of letters. From the knowledge we possess on this subject, we are bold to declare, that in our opinion, the chief scribe of the “Book of Mor-[66]mon” does not possess less knowledge in either spelling or punctuation; and was it not that we, in a measure, stand pledged to “drag the deeds of darkness to the light of day, we should exchange this unpleasant task for one of a more pleasing nature, to wit: that of writing a true, genuine, and authentic history of “the captivity, dispersion, trials, hardships, sufferings, and final restoration of the ten lost tribes of Israel, who have not been heard of for more than two thousand years, with traits of character, matrimonial customs, anecdotes, &c.;” of all which, not one word will be borrowed from the Cabala of the Jews, the Bible of the Gentiles, the books of Cybals, or the works of a celebrated Chinese philosopher, whose life we have a great itching also to write. But we have put our hands to the plough, and must not look black. We are pledged to stand forth the champion of a people thirsting after truth, [office,] and their necessities must and shall be attended to, without any reference to our individual propensities. . . ."
"“GOLDEN BIBLE” The Palmyra Freeman says—The greatest piece of superstition that has ever come within our knowledge, now occupies the attention of a few individuals of this quarter. It is generally known and spoken of as the “Golden Bible.” Its proselytes give the following account of it In the fall of 1827, a person by the name of Joseph Smith, of Manchester, Ontario county, reported that he had been visited in a dream by the spirit of the Amighty and informed that in a certain hill in that town, was deposited this Golden Bible, containing an ancient record of a divine nature and origin After having been thrice thus visited, as he states, he proceeded to the spot, and after penetrating “mother earth” a short distance, the Bible was found, together with a huge pair of spectacles! He had been directed, however, not to let any mortal being examine them, “under no less penalty” than instant death! They were therefore nicely wrapped up and excluded from the “vulgar gaze of poor wicked mortals!” It was said that the leaves of the bible were plates of gold, about 8 inches long, 6 wide, and one eighth of an inch thick, on which were engraved characters or hyeroglyphics. By placing the spectacles in a hat, and looking into it, Smith could (he said so, at least,) interpret these characters. An account of this discovery was soon circulated. The subject was almost invariably treated as it should have been—with contempt. A few, however, believed the “golden” story, among whom was Martin Harris, an honest and industrious farmer of this town, (Palmyra). So blindly enthusiastic was Harris, that he took some of the characters interpreted by Smith, and went in search of some one besides the interpreter, who was learned enough to English them; but all to whom he applied (among the number was Professor Mitchell, of New York) happened not to be possessed of sufficient knowledge to give satisfaction! Harris returned, and set Smith to work at interpreting the Bible. He has at length performed the task, and the work is soon to be put to press in Palmyra. Its language and doctrine are said to be far superior to those of the book of life!!!"
"IMPOSITION AND BLASPHEMY!!— MONEYDIGGERS, & c. Some months ago a noise was made among the credulous of the earth, respecting a wonderful production said to have been found as follows. An ignoramous near Palmyra, Wayne county, pretended he had found some ‘ Gold Plates,’ as he is pleased to call them, upon which is said to be engraved characters of marvelous and misunderstandable import, which he, nor no other mortal could divine. These characters he has translated into the English language, and lo! they appear to be no other than the mysticisms of an unrevealed Bible! A person more credulous or more cunning, than him who found the plates, ordered the translation thereof, mortgaged his farm, sold all he had, and appropriated it to the printing and binding of several thousand copies of this pearl, which is emphatically of GREAT PRICE! The book comes before the public under the general title of the ‘ Book of Mormon,’ arranged under different heads, something as follows. The book of Mormon— containing the books of Nephi, Nimshi, Pukei, and Buckeye— and contains some four or five hundred pages. It comes out under the ‘ testimony of three witnesses,’ and of ‘ six witnesses,’ who say they ‘ have seen and hefted the plates,’ that ‘ they have the appearance of gold,’ and that divers and strange characters are ‘ imprinted on them.’ The author, who has the ‘ copy- right secured according to law,’ says, ‘ that he was commanded of the Lord in a dream,’ to go and find, and that he went and found. At one time it was said that he was commanded of the Lord not to show the plates, on pain of instant death— but it seems he has shown them to the said witnesses, and yet is alive! At another time it is said that none could see them but he who was commanded;— that though they should lie in the middle of the street beneath the broad glare of the meridian sun, in the presence of hundreds, yet no eye but his could see them! The translator if we take his word for it, has been directed by an angel in this business, for the salvation and edification of the world! It partakes largely of Salem Witch- craft- ism, and Jemima Wilkinson- ism, and is in point of blasphemy and imposition, the very summit. But it is before the public, and can be had for money, at various places. This story brings to mind one of a similar nature once played off upon the inhabitants of Rochester and its vicinity, near the close of the last war. During the war, we were subject to many inconveniences at this place, and were in constant danger of attack from the enemy. Those who lived here at that time, can well remember the frequent attempts made by the enemy to land at the mouth of the Genesee, at which point our army had deposited heavy stores. Our village was then young, and the abodes of men were ‘ few and far between.’ If we remember aright, it was in the year 1815, that a family of Smiths moved into these parts, and took up their abode in a miserable hut on the east bank of the river, now near the late David K. Carter's tavern. They had a wonderful son, of about 18 years of age, who, on a certain day, as they said, while in the road, discovered a round stone of the size of a man's fist, the which when he first saw it, presented to him on the one side, all the dazzling splendor of the sun in full blaze— and on the other, the clearness of the moon. He fell down insensible at the sight, and while in the trance produced by the sudden and awful discovery, it was communicated to him that he was soon to become an oracle— and the keys of mystery were put into his hands, and he saw the unsealing of the book of fate. He told his tale for MONEY. Numbers flocked to him to test his skill, and the first question among a certain class was, if there was any of Kidd’s money hid in these parts of the earth. The oracle, after adjusting the stone in his hat, and looking in upon it sometime, pronounced that there was. The question of where, being decided upon, there forthwith emerged a set armed with “ pick- axe, hoe and spade, out into the mountains, to dislodge the treasure. We shall mention but one man of the money- diggers. His name was Northrop. He was a man so unlike anything of refined human kind, that he might well be called a demi- devil sent forth upon the world to baffle the elements of despair, and wrestle with fate. As you will suppose, he was an enemy to all fear. Northrop and his men sallied out upon the hills east of the river, and commenced digging— the night was chosen for operation— already had two nights been spent in digging, and the third commenced upon, when Northrop with his pick- axe struck the chest! The effect was powerful, and contrary to an explicit rule laid down by himself he exclaimed, “ d— m me, I've found it!"" The charm was broken!— the scream of demons, the chattering of spirits— and hissing of serpents, rent the air, and the treasure moved! The oracle was again consulted, who said that it had removed to the Deep Hollow. There, a similar accident happened— and again it was removed to a hill near the village of Penfield, where, it was pretended the undertakers obtained the treasure. About this time the enemy's fleet appeared off the mouth of the Genesee, and an attack at that point was expected— this produced a general alarm.— There are in all communities, a certain class, who do not take the trouble, or are not capable of thinking for themselves, and who, in cases of alarm, are ready to construe every thing mysterious or uncommon into omens of awful purport. This class flocked to the oracle. He predicted that the enemy would make an attack; and
that blood must flow.— The story flew, and seemed to carry with it a desolating influence— some moved away into other parts, and other were trembling under a full belief of the prediction. At this time a justice of the peace of the place visited the oracle, and warned him to leave the country. He gravely told the magistrate that any one who opposed him would receive judgements upon his head, and that he who should take away the inspired stone from him, would suffer immediate death! The magistrate, indignant at the fellow's impudence, demanded the stone, and ground it to power on a rock near by— he then departed promising the family further notice. The result was the Smiths were missing— the enemy did not land— the money diggers joined in the general execration, and declared that they had had their labor for their pains— and all turned out to be a hoax! Now in reference to the two stories, “ put that to that, and they are a noble pair of brothers.”"
"Just about in this particular region, for some time past, much speculation has existed, concerning a pretended discovery, through superhuman means, of an ancient record, of a religious and a divine nature and origin, written in ancient characters, impossible to be interpreted by any to whom the special gift has not been imparted by inspiration. It is generally known and spoken of as the “Golden Bible.” Most people entertain an idea that the whole matter is the result of a gross imposition and a grosser superstition. It is pretended that it will be published as soon as the translation is completed. Meanwhile we have been furnished with the following, which is represented to us as intended for the title page of the work--we give it as a curiosity:—“The Book of Mormon, an account, written by the hand of Mormon upon plates, taken from the plates of Nephi—“Wherefore it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites, written to the Lamanites, which are a remnant of the house of Israel: and also to Jew and Gentile; written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation; written and sealed and hid up unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed.—to come forth by the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof—sealed up by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile—the interpretation thereof by the gift of God: an abridgment taken from the book of Ether. “Also, which is a record of the people of Jared, which were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to Heaven; which is to shew unto the remnant of the house of Israel how great things the Lord hath done for their fathers: and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever: and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations. And now, if there by fault, it be the mistake of men: wherefore condemn not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the judgment seat of Christ.—By JOSEPH SMITH, Junior, Author and Proprietor”"
"OUR OWN AFFAIRS. “BEWARE OF SECRET ASSOCIATIONS.” We take the above quotation from the head of the editorial column, in the “PALMYRA FREEMAN,” and since we are informed that the DEVIL can quote scripture whenever it suits his purpose, we acknowledge that our astonishment is somewhat lessened. But where did the grave editor of the Freeman find this “solemn warning?” Has he been permitted to examine the hidden mysteries of “the Book of Mormon?” It appears hung up in double and treble capitals, with double comma’s, to prove, ( as we suppose, ) its authenticity; but the truth of it is, the quotation is not genuine, and probably originated in the muddy brain of Oliver Heartwell, who, we are informed, “dreamed strange dreams and saw visions,” about the time he was carrying on a Literary correspondence with John Q. Adams. Be that as it may, we acknowledge we are a little surprised at the silence of the editorial fraternity, in general, on this subject, and can only account for it on the supposition that they considered it a forgery so palpable, that it needed no exposure; but this is entirely a mistaken opinion. Many an honest Anti- Mason has read the above quotation, and really supposed that those identical words fell from the hallowed lips of the venerable father of his country;— for such, and such alone, we now write: and in the first place, let us read what was said by “ the first and best of men,” in his farewell to his constituents, and judge if the veracious editor of the FREEMAN has not, in his hurry of business, put his “saddle on the wrong horse.” It is our duty to detect fraud and falsehood wherever it may be found, and we intend to do it fearlessly.— “All COMBINATIONS and ASSOCIATIONS, under whatever plausible character, with the real design to direct, controul, counteract, or awe the regular deliberations and actions of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this fundamental principle, and of fatal tendency.”— “They serve to organize faction.” We have attempted to quote this passage verbatim, and appeal to the document itself for the truth of our assertion. We could go much further, and as we humbly believe, convince every honest Anti-Mason that it is such men precisely, as the editor of the Freeman and other aspiring demagogues, which our beloved WASHINGTON wished to warn us to “beware of;”— men who without the whirlwind of faction, which they attempt to raise— and sometimes for the moment too well succeed— would be left to rot upon that dung-hill from whence they emanated. Real merit is always modest; not so with political Anti- Masonic leaders: (for we do not speak of honest well- meaning Anti-Masons, who know little about Masonry and care less:) they woo us as “the Lion woos his bride.”—they thrust themselves upon us and by art or fraud attempt to persuade us that they were born to rule over us. May God forefend such dire calamity! Who did our country’s father mean, when he suggested that “cunning, ambitious, and unprincipled men might be enabled to subvert the power of the people and usurp for themselves the reins of Government; destroying afterwards the very engines which have lifted them to unjust dominion.” We shall close this article by suggesting the propriety of comparing notes, and attempting to get at the true meaning and import of the many warnings contained in the almost sacred document just quoted from, and before it is too late, learn the truth of an old proverb, that “the greatest thief cries first.” Should any of our learned readers be so short- sighted as to think that they discover any thing in our hasty remarks, that smells of party politics, any further than the cause of truth and justice is concerned, we must beg leave to tell them that they are mistaken. Like our Anti-Masonic brethren we wish to disseminate light, or in other words, to make darkness visible."
